Asian equities and U.S. futures advanced Tuesday as investors looked past the potential economic impact of the spreading coronavirus to push a gauge of global stocks close to reclaiming a record high.

Benchmarks in Hong Kong, Seoul and Sydney rose, with Chinese stocks logging their sixth day of gains. Japanese financial markets are shut for a holiday. The risk appetite began in the U.S. where the S&P 500 Index climbed to a new high Monday, with most sectors advancing. The Chinese yuan traded offshore maintained gains, while the yen was little changed. Oil recovered some of its losses after plumbing the lowest in more than a year in New York.

Investors are trying to figure out whether the rate of contagion from the coronavirus is stabilizing even as the death toll climbed above 1,000, higher than the SARS outbreak, and one estimate put the mortality rate from the disease at 1%. Attention turns to corporate earnings, with investors seeking guidance from companies on the expected impact of the virus on their operations. Earnings are due this week from companies such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG and Nestle SA.

Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell addresses U.S. lawmakers this week in his semi-annual testimony and markets will be looking for any remarks on the effect of the virus on the economy and monetary policy. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President Mary Daly said Monday that the U.S. economy and policy were in a good place.


“At the margin, we have to consider that the rebound in growth we were expecting over 2020 may be either delayed or somewhat less vigorous than we were anticipating due to the impact of the virus,” Mark Robertson, head of multistrategy at Aviva Investors, said in an interview in Sydney. “But ongoing monetary policy support, especially what was delivered last year, a reduction in uncertainty around trade wars, should still be a tail wind.”

Elsewhere, oil rose back to around $50 a barrel after sliding as prospects for an emergency meeting of OPEC+ withered, raising fears of a supply glut at the same time the coronavirus is weighing on global demand.