U.S. equities climbed alongside stocks in Europe and Asia on Tuesday as investors digested the the latest views from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, who is scheduled to speak to Congress today. Oil rose and Treasuries slipped. The dollar nudged lower versus a basket of its major peers.

The S&P 500 Index opened in the green -- led by the technology and consumer-discretionary sectors -- ahead of Powell’s testimony. In prepared remarks released earlier, the Fed chair said the U.S. central bank is keeping a close eye on fallout from the deadly coronavirus outbreak in China.


Equities seem to be enjoying momentum following another record close in the U.S. on Monday. Sprint Corp. soared over 70% higher after T-Mobile US Inc.’s $26.5 billion takeover won court approval. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index jumped to an intraday record led by miners. Benchmarks in Hong Kong and Seoul rose at least 1%, while the gauge in Shanghai advanced for a sixth session. Markets in Japan were shut for a holiday.,

nvestors have turned more bullish lately despite the epidemic, signaling some confidence that central banks will ease policy in the event growth slows down. They’re also focused on how companies address the virus’s impact, with earnings due this week from firms such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Credit Suisse Group AG and Airbus SE.

“I equate the virus this year to tariffs last year in that it’s the overriding story,” JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist at TD Ameritrade, said by phone. “Everything you talk about you’ll say, ‘If the virus subsides’ -- just like ‘If tariffs get settled’ last year. I think, overall, the market has been very reasonable in how it’s dealt with the virus so far. We haven’t seen true panic or anything like that.”

Elsewhere, oil futures clawed back some losses after hitting a one-year low in New York trading.

Here are some key events coming up:

Earnings season continues with reports including MGM Resorts International and Softbank on Wednesday; Thursday will bring Alibaba, Nissan, Credit Suisse, Airbus, Nestle and AIG.
A key contest for Democrat presidential hopefuls unfolds Tuesday, when the state of New Hampshire holds a primary vote.
Fed Chairman Powell delivers his semiannual testimony on monetary policy in Congress on Tuesday and Wednesday; ECB President Christine Lagarde speaks at the European Parliament in Strasbourg Tuesday.
Thursday sees a gauge of underlying U.S. inflation, the core consumer price index. It is forecast to increase to 0.2% in January, a faster pace than in December.
China and the U.S. on Friday lower tariffs on billions of dollars of respective imports as part of the trade deal signed last month.
These are the main moves in markets:

Stocks
The S&P 500 Index advanced 1.1% to 3,365.51 as of 9:33 a.m. New York time, the highest on record with the largest gain in a week.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.9% to 428.42, the highest on record.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 0.7% to 170.03.
The MSCI Emerging Market Index advanced 1.1% to 1,099.25.
Currencies
The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index dipped 0.1% to 1,206.06, the first retreat in a week and the largest decrease in more than a week.
The British pound gained 0.3% to $1.2954, the biggest climb in more than a week.
The euro was little changed at $1.0913, the first advance in more than a week.
The Japanese yen was little changed at 109.79 per dollar.
Bonds
The yield on 10-year Treasuries gained one basis point to 1.57%.
Germany’s 10-year yield advanced one basis point to -0.40%.
Britain’s 10-year yield was unchanged at 0.557%, the lowest in more than a week.
Commodities
West Texas Intermediate crude advanced 1.9% to $50.51 a barrel.
Gold strengthened 0.1% to $1,573.18 an ounce, hitting the highest in more than a week with its fifth consecutive advance.
LME copper gained 0.1% to $5,667 per metric ton.